**Ethereum Blockchain & IPFS based**

**Descentralized Social Network – “SocialNet”**

*v.0.1*

*Team: Javier Carrizo , Joaquín Ugarte, Máximo Gazitúa*

 

WHAT IS SOCIALNET
=================

SocialNet is a decentralised social network and content distribution platform
based on Ethereum Blockchain and IPFS that is capable of rewarding thousands of
people by leveraging their influence over the network. This is possible by
allowing third-party companies, institutions or any user to buy certain “spread
of content” over the social network and rewarding the people who caused more
spread. SocialNet is powered by ether as cryptocurrency and used the benefits of
IPFS as a content-addressable, peer to peer method to store and share
information.

 

Core traits
-----------

-   **PRIVACY:** Contrary to the targeted advertising, SocialNet rewards only
    the “influence” over the network (ie. the quantity of people who read your
    posts or shares) instead of learning about sensitive data and targeting some
    users.

-   **PUBLIC-CENSORSHIP:** In SocialNet, the users have the power to censor
    content by just don´t share it. No institution has the power to control what
    is shared or neither take down some content.

-   **TRACEABILITY:** The traceability of the content is directly related to the
    architecture of SocialNet. The post must be tracked to decide which users
    have more influence over the network. Every post it’s been tracked in a
    decentralized, distributed, auditable and transparent manner using the
    Ethereum Blockchain an IPFS.

-   **DEMOCRACY:** Users of SocialNet has the final word over the content they
    distribute, the people who connects and the content they share. The core
    architecture of SocialNet give the users the power to shape the incoming
    content and ultimately affect the way that advertising and content sharing
    it’s made.

 

Key Features
------------

1.  **FRIENDS:** Add friends and connect with each other by producing and
    sharing content that is appealing to your closed ones. SocialNet also
    recommend you people to connect based on your current friendships.

2.  **POSTS:** Imagine, write, design and post the content that you want to
    share and see how much influence and how far it can go.

3.  **SHARES:** When you see some content you like, just share it to your
    friends. As more friends of you shares your post, it means more influence
    you have on the network.

4.  **ENCRYPTION:** Your identity is safe on SocialNet. No private information
    is requested at any time. Just select you nickname and go!

 

 

Architecture
============

SocialNet use the Ethereum Blockchain and IPFS as its main technologies. The
content of the posts like text and photos are saved on IPFS, so it doesn’t
depend on any centralized data server provider. The user name, friends, the
smart contract and the reference to the content to be shared through IPFS are
upload to the blockchain to keep it safe, immutable, auditable and
decentralized.

There are three instances in which user has to pay gas; the user creation, the
friend association and the content publish action.

-   **User creation:** To create a new user, SocialNet just need a wallet
    address. With that info, it asks you to enter you name (or nickname) for the
    social network and store it in the Ethereum Blockchain. The users have to
    pay the necessary gas to get this process done.

-   **Friend association:** Because the number of friends is crucial for
    SocialNet to calculate the influence on the net, the list of your friends is
    upload to the blockchain, so all the reward transaction based on the number
    of your friends is immutable and easily auditable.

-   **Content publish action:** The users have to submit a smart contract to the
    blockchain to get their post published. In the smart contract, there are
    lists of content that contains IPFS that points out a JSON file that
    contains text and images information of the content that the user wants to
    publish. The user has to use the sufficient gas needed to submit the smart
    contract o the blockchain.

 

 

Business Model
==============

The primary focus of SocialNet is to distribute content to as many users as
possible in a meaningful way. With that in mind, SocialNet is design to rewards
users who have more influence over the network, or in other words, who have more
friends to read and share a specific content. To achieve that goal, SocialNet
was created in a way that those users who wants to create and publish new
content, have to adhere it with some gas to get to publish it. This gas is
recorded in the smart contract submitted at the moment of publishing that
content. As SocialNet wants to reward top influencers, but hopefully the closed
ones to the content creator, the numbers of “shares” the content can get is
pre-fixed, so the “network-depth” of that specific content is fixed. This avoid
the existence of users who are only motivated to have more and more friends to
become “top influencer” and winning all of the rewards over and over again. With
this solved, SocialNet calculates the top influencers for that specific content,
and once the maximum shares are achieved, the smart contract reaches the state
of “unsettled”. With the smart contract in this state, the top influencers have
the option to “collect” the gas recorded in that smart contract in an even way.
Currently, the social network owner collects a % of the reward to maintain
SocialNet up and running.

 

In the next image is shown the general process driven chart of SocialNet

 

 
